Interpreters
============

SENAITE.LIS2A allows to setup custom interpreters to handle messages
differently, depending on a user-defined criteria. The most common scenario is
to have a different interpreter for each instrument. Multiple interpreters
for same instrument but used based on different criteria are also supported.

You need first to create a folder in your add-on and register it as a resources
directory for type `senaite.lis2a.interpreters` in `configure.zcml` as follows:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- resource directory for LIS2A2 interpreters -->
    <plone:static
        directory="interpreters"
        type="senaite.lis2a.interpreters" />

Note that in this case, the name of the folder is "interpreters".

Then, you only need to create a file in json format representing the
interpreter with your own criteria and mappings. System will only consider
files ending with the extension ".json".

For example, given a message like the following:

.. code-block:: ini

    H|\^&|9||cobas infinity^Roche Diagnostics^^3.03.12|||||cobas infinity ^Roche Diagnostics||P||20221021184225
    P|1||||||||||||||||||||||20221013093955
    O|1|221000044W|^^221000002|^^^77140-2\^^^1996-8\^^^59570-2|R|20221013093955|||||X||||SER||||||0||||F
    R|1|^^BCRBT^77140-2|44|Âµmol / l|[44.2 - 132]|||F||||20221021184219
    R|2|^^BUN^1996-8|4|mmol / l|[2.2 - 2.7]|||F||||20221021184219
    R|3|^^CHLRD^59570-2|5|mmol / l|[3.5 - 7.1]|||P||||20221021184218
    L|1|N

we can create a file "cobas_infinity.json" representing an interpreter with
the criteria and rules for the import of the message above:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "id": "COBAS_INFINITY",
      "extends": "LIS2-A2",
      "selection_criteria": {
        "H.SenderName": "cobas infinity"
      },
      "result_criteria": {
        "R.ResultStatus": "F"
      },
      "mappings": {
        "id": [
          "O.InstrumentSpecimenID"
        ],
        "keyword": [
          "R.UniversalTestID_Type",
          "R.UniversalTestID_ManufacturerCode"
        ],
        "result": "R.Measurement",
        "ranges": "R.ReferenceRanges",
        "units": "R.Units",
        "capture_date": "R.DateTimeCompleted",
        "captured_by": [
          "R.OperatorIdentification",
          "R.VerifierIdentification"
        ]
      },
      "O": {
        "InstrumentSpecimenID": [3,2]
      }
    }

Note that this interpreter *extends* from another interpreter, called LIS2-A2.
The `LIS2A-2 interpreter`_ provides the basic mappings and positional
information from records and values as defined in the standard.

When a LIS2-A2 message is received, the system first checks if the message
matches with the criteria set under *selection_criteria* parameter. If all
criteria are met, system considers that the given interpreter supports the
message and will therefore be used to extract and import results. Otherwise,
the system skips the interpreter and keeps searching in resources directory
until a suitable interpreter is found.

When the results records from the LIS2-A2 message are processed following the
rules defined in the interpreter, the system takes the **result_criteria** into
consideration to whether try or not try to import the result record. Going back
to the example above, the last results record won't be imported because the
value for `ResultStatus` is not `F` (Final), but `P`(Preliminary):

.. code-block:: ini

    R|3|^^CHLRD^59570-2|5|mmol / l|[3.5 - 7.1]|||P||||20221021184218

After results from the message are filtered in accordance with the criteria
above, system tries to import the results in accordance with the information
provided in `mappings`.


.. Links

.. _LIS2A-2 interpreter: https://github.com/senaite/senaite.lis2a/blob/2.x/src/senaite/lis2a/interpreter/lis2a2.py
